## The Forgotten Art of Structured Programming

The Forgotten Art of Structured Programming - Kevlin Henney [C++ on Sea 2019]  
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=SFv8Wm2HdNM  

Structured programming. That's so 1970s, right? It was all about gotos (or not) and has no more relevance to current programming practice, with its exceptions, threads, object models, functional hand-me-downs and refactorings, than flared trousers, disco or punk. Or perhaps there is and always has been more to structured programming than this oversimplified view?  

This session looks back at the thinking that motivated and informed structured programming, from "Go To Statement Considered Harmful" to block-structured code and its realisation in object orientation, from formal reasoning to design by contract, to look forward at its enduring implication for modern programmers, namely being able to understand and reason about the code they are looking at.  

Kevlin is an independent consultant, speaker, writer and trainer. His development interests are in patterns, programming, practice and process. He has been a columnist for a number of magazines and sites and has been on far too many committees (it has been said that "a committee is a cul-de-sac down which ideas are lured and then quietly strangled"). He is co-author of A Pattern Language for Distributed Computing and On Patterns and Pattern Languages, two volumes in the Pattern-Oriented Software Architecture series. He is also editor of 97 Things Every Programmer Should Know. He lives in Bristol and online.  

https://cpponsea.uk/2019/sessions/the-forgotten-art-of-structured-programming.html  

# References

The NATO Software Engineering Conferences  
http://homepages.cs.ncl.ac.uk/brian.randell/NATO   

STRUCTURED PROGRAMMING  
http://seriouscomputerist.atariverse.com/media/pdf/book/Structured%20Programming.pdf
https://dl.acm.org/doi/book/10.5555/1243380    

The paradigms of programming  
https://dl.acm.org/doi/10.1145/359138.359140  

Edgar Dijkstra: Go To Statement Considered Harmful  
https://homepages.cwi.nl/~storm/teaching/reader/Dijkstra68.pdf  

A Case against the GO TO Statement  
https://www.cs.utexas.edu/users/EWD/transcriptions/EWD02xx/EWD215.html  

Goto Fail, Heartbleed, and Unit Testing Culture  
https://www.martinfowler.com/articles/testing-culture.html  

Take Advantage of Code Analysis Tools  
https://97-things-every-x-should-know.gitbooks.io/97-things-every-programmer-should-know/content/en/thing_79  

Testing Is the Engineering Rigor of Software Development  
https://97-things-every-x-should-know.gitbooks.io/97-things-every-programmer-should-know/content/en/thing_83/index.html  

Don't use goto  
https://root.cern.ch/TaligentDocs/TaligentOnline/DocumentRoot/1.0/Docs/books/WM/WM_97.html#0  

Duffs Device  
https://www.lysator.liu.se/c/duffs-device.html  

FizzBuzz in Haskell by Embedding a Domain-Specific Language  
https://themonadreader.files.wordpress.com/2014/04/fizzbuzz.pdf  

III. Hierarchical Program Structures  
https://fi.ort.edu.uy/innovaportal/file/20124/1/18-dahl-hoare-hierarchical.pdf  

Software Architecture in Practice  
https://jz81.github.io/course/sa/Software%20Architecture%20in%20Practice%20(3rd).pdf  

Software Requirements & Specifications by Michael Jackson  
https://www.win.tue.nl/~wstomv/quotes/software-requirements-specifications.html  

On Understanding Data Abstraction, Revisited  
https://www.cs.utexas.edu/~wcook/Drafts/2009/essay.pdf  

Data Abstraction and Hierarchy  
https://www.cs.tufts.edu/~nr/cs257/archive/barbara-liskov/data-abstraction-and-hierarchy.pdf   

Coding with Reason  
https://97-things-every-x-should-know.gitbooks.io/97-things-every-programmer-should-know/en/thing_15  

An Axiomatic Basis for Computer Programming  
https://www.cs.cmu.edu/~crary/819-f09/Hoare69.pdf  

Cooperating sequential processes  
https://pure.tue.nl/ws/files/4279816/344354178746665.pdf

Subject: Re: recursive mutexes 
http://zaval.org/resources/library/butenhof1.html

References for "The Future of Programming"
http://worrydream.com/dbx

Coordination languages and their significance  
https://dl.acm.org/doi/10.1145/129630.129635  

Algorithms + Data Structures = Programs  
https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Algorithms_%2B_Data_Structures_%3D_Programs  

The Origin of Unix Pipes  
http://doc.cat-v.org/unix/pipes  

Communicating Sequential Processes  
http://usingcsp.com/cspbook.pdf